add draft for use cases page intros (#2278)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/getting-started/use-cases/application-development.md

---
id: application-development
title: Application Development
sidebar_label: Application Development
---

# Application Development

Application development within the Mia-Platform ecosystem is engineered to be a self-service and AI-native experience, transforming a traditionally slow and fragmented process into a streamlined, intelligent workflow. The core challenge in modern software creation is the immense time and resources spent managing underlying complexities rather than focusing on business logic. Mia-Platform addresses this by providing developers with a unified environment and guided paths ("golden paths") to build, manage, and deploy scalable, reusable, and high-performance cloud-native applications with unprecedented speed and efficiency.

The entire end-to-end lifecycle of an application—from initial design and configuration to deployment and monitoring—is managed with full autonomy and security through the [**Mia-Platform Console**](/development_suite/overview-dev-suite).

## A Self-Service, Composable Experience

> At the heart of Mia-Platform's application development philosophy is a composable approach, enabled by a rich and ever-expanding [**Software Catalog**](/software-catalog/overview). This centralized catalog provides developers with ready-to-use, standardized assets, eliminating bottlenecks and duplicated efforts. Development teams can accelerate product creation by composing solutions from a variety of well-defined building blocks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Composability is the approach that shapes Mia-Platform's own idea of application development. It is enabled by a rich and ever-expanding [**Software Catalog**](/software-catalog/overview). This centralized catalog provides developers with ready-to-use, standardized assets, eliminating bottlenecks and redundancies. Abiding by predefined compliance guardrails, development teams can accelerate product creation by composing brand new solutions or reusing existing services from a variety of well-defined building blocks:
```

* [**Plugins**](/marketplace/plugins/mia-platform-plugins)**:** Ready-to-use microservices, typically packaged as Docker images with predefined configurations, designed to solve specific runtime needs and integrate seamlessly into your projects.

* [**Templates**](/marketplace/templates/mia_templates)**:** Base repositories that serve as a starting point for creating new microservices. They provide developers with direct access to the codebase, ensuring compliance with best practices from day one.

* [**Examples**](/marketplace/examples/mia_examples)**:** Similar to templates, examples offer sample code addressing specific use-cases, often with more features already implemented to help developers familiarize themselves with the development environment.

* [**Applications**](/marketplace/applications/mia_applications)**:** Pre-configured bundles of resources—including microservices, endpoints, CRUD collections, and public variables—that can be instantiated with a few clicks to set up complex, working systems rapidly.

## Building Blocks of a Cloud-Native Application

> Using the Mia-Platform Console, developers can design and configure all the fundamental components of a modern digital product in a powerful low-code and no-code environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers can use the Mia-Platform Console to easily design and configure all the fundamental components of a modern digital product in a powerful low-code and no-code environment.
```
